---
layout: post
title: Digimon Lab
subtitle: Lab 1
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/DigimonThumbnail.jpg
tags: [Lab]
comments: true
---

**Having Fun with Digimon**

  This lab was a fun one. For it we were given a csv file with 3 questions to write functions to solve. Whenever I have a coding project that is not immediately 
obvious I always try to go in stages. First I try to get some code down that works. That means writing the first thing that comes to my head and weeding out the 
bugs so that it does what I want it to do. Note that what I want it to do is not always what the coding project is supposed to do. The logic of the code might be 
flawed or miss edge cases, but if it is doing what the logic I was thinking did, the step is over. Then I find the all the problems that impede functionality. This 
may be the missed cases or the program taking way too long to run. Finally I optimize and clarify the code. I try to condense code if I can while adding more clear 
variable names and making sure that my code is easier to read.
 
  The objectives for this lab are to find the average speed of the digimon in the dataset and create functions that return the amount of Digimon with a certain 
value for a given column and a team of 3 digimon that have combined less than 15 memory and greater than or equal to 300 attack. The first objective I made as a 
function and it was pretty simple. The function looped through the csv and added up the speed values of the digimon and kept track of the number of digimon. After 
it was done looping, it returned the total speed divided by the average speed. In sudo code it looks like this:
~~~
function:
  open connection with file:
    number of digimon = 0
    total speed = 0
    for every row in file:
      add 1 to number of digimon
      add this digimon's speed to the total speed
    return total speed divided by number of digimon
~~~
For the next function I created I looped through the dataset and if the conditions matched the input conditions add 1 tot he number of digimon. In sudo code:
~~~
function with parameters of column and value for column:
  open connection with file:
    number of digimon with parameters as a trait = 0
    for every row in file
      if digimon was the value for the specified column:
        add 1 to number of digimon 
    return number of digimon
~~~
For the final function I created a triple nested for loop so that every possible permutation of 3 digimon is checked against the condition, less than 15 total memory and greater than or equal to 300 attack. This means every combination is checked so I guarantee have a solution if one exists. In sudo code:
~~~
function:
 open connection to file:
  for every digimon in file:
    for every digimon in file:
      for every digimon in file:
        if the 3 digimon have less than 15 total memory and greater than or equal to 300 attack:
          return the 3 digimon
~~~

Then it was time to fix all of the errors. The first 2 functions were fine, but the last one ended up taking over 15 seconds to run. This means that this was 
wildly inefficient and so needed immediate fixing. The solution I came up with was to first loop through the dataset and find the digimon with the highest attack 
for each memory value. Then of that list, keep the digimon that had at least 20 attack per memory. Finally check every combination of those digimon to see if they 
satisfy the conditions. I won't put the sudo code here because I was never able to get this code to fully work and even if I had it was still not what I wanted. In 
this problem I wanted to make the function work for as many datasets of digimon as possible. This solution excludes any dataset where the triplets that satisfy the 
conditions don't exclusively contain digimon with an average attack per memory of over 20. So then I created my final solution. I still used the idea of getting the 
digimon with the highest attack for each memory value. Then I created all combinations of 3 integers that add up to 15. Finally I checked to see if the 3 digimon 
with those 3 memory values had a combined attack of over 300. I also used a for loop to create 3 integers summing to 14 and so on so that it covers more possible 
data sets. Here it is in sudo code.

~~~
function:
  open connection to file:
    for every row in file:
      if the attack of the digimon is the new highest for its memory:
        store that digimon in a dictionary with its memory as its key
    for every value p 15 to 1
      for every value q less than p:
       for every value r less than p-r:
         if combined attack of 3 digimon with memory of q,r, and p-q-r is greater than or equal to 300:
          return those 3 digimon
~~~

Finally the tiny changes. At the beginning of the file I created a list of dictionaries that is a list of the rows in the dataset so I don't need to open the file 
every time the function runs. I considered using a nested dictionary for this object, but it seemed like it would add unnecessary length and complexity to my code 
given that it would allow any of the functions to be condensed much.

So that was my experience with the first lab. Overall a pleasant experience. 7/10


**Image Sources** 
https://japaneseanime.fandom.com/wiki/Digimon_Tamers_(Anime)
